Phoenix/MOCC.
This is Governor Leonid Polivanov.
We will be temporarily halting
all orbit-to-surface departures.
Please be advised.
Governor Polivanov?
The next Kuragin shipment is already
loaded onto the cargo hopper.
Preflights complete.
We're just waiting on ATC's okay.
I am ordering you to hold them.
- Copy that. Understood.
- Let's go.
Let's go.
- Get back with the rest of them.
- Rest of the what? Hostages?
Because this is who we are.
We are hostages. right?
People you are keeping at gunpoint.
- Kidnapped...
- Shut the fuck up.
I don't think I can do this. Ger.
Are you kidding me?
It's just…
It's too much. man.
Well. leave the fucking gun at least.
He has got more sense than any of you.
What are your demands. huh?
Who's in charge? You're in charge?
Sit down. Sit the fuck down.
Grab her! Grab her!
Help! We're being held hostage! Help!
Get her up.
What's the plan. Gerardo?
What do you mean?
Stop the automation.
How?
Turn off outgoing comms.
I don't want anyone
sending word back to Earth.
Until we figure this shit out.
we're all staying right here.
Everybody. just be calm. okay?
If you're calm. nobody else gets hurt.
Happy Valley. this is Sojourner.
Do you copy?
Happy Valley. Sojourner. please respond.
I don't see anything wrong with our comms.
which would indicate
it's a Mars-side issue.
Could be solar weather.
satellite relay issue.
Could be anything.
Word from MOCC?
No. it's the Kuragin mission.
Sojourner. this is Kosmos-1. Do you read?
We read you. Kosmos-1.
Glad to hear from you.
We weren't sure if our comms were down.
There is a problem on Mars.
Say more.
I have been told by Star City
that anarchists have taken over
the Happy Valley control room.
There seems to be a hostage situation.
Is everyone there safe?
Have you gotten word
that everyone there is okay?
We do not know more than this.
It sounds like this has
just happened in the last hour or so.
I am sorry to be telling you this.
I'll go wake up the rest of the crew.
It's chaos out here.
You should keep
your people where they are.
Copy that.
Keep me posted.
Sir. ma'am. the protest
in the business district
seems to have become violent
and tipped over into the rest of the base.
Not again.
A contingent of protesters have split off.
and they've taken over MOCC by force.
They what?
Have you gotten word from
any of our employees working in there?
Not in the last half hour. no.
That room controls every
critical system on this base.
Power. life support. communications.
not to mention the Titan mission.
Do they not understand that?
It's unclear. ma'am.
Alex Baldwin. do we know his whereabouts?
He was in the protest? Is he okay?
The situation's extremely fluid.
We don't know anything.
We aren't getting clear reports.
- How are you feeling?
- I'm fine.
- Follow my finger.
- Yep.
Any headache. nausea?
- No.
- Good.
No apparent concussion. Keep icing.
Lily.
Is she gonna be all right?
We're keeping her under observation.
She seems stable.
Miles. she's gonna be okay.
I should have been there to protect her.
Hey. you were.
You heard Dima.
Most likely she's just got
a mild concussion.
Thank God it's just that.
Attention. this is Gerardo Ortiz-Niño.
We have control of MOCC.
We are holding the governor
and everyone in MOCC.
We have stopped the shipments.
and we are not gonna let them
send us back to Earth.
Jesus. what's he done?
He's angry like all of us.
But. Miles. you know Ger.
I mean. under pressure like this.
You have to go up there.
No. I can't leave Lily.
She's gonna be fine.
and there's nothing you can do
just sitting here and worrying.
But you can do something up there.
They know they can trust you.
Please remain
in your habs until further notice.
Hey! Don't move.
Hands up.
Hold on a minute. Listen. I'm just trying
to make my way across the base.
Keep quiet. asshole.
You're under arrest. okay?
I know you're with them.
- I'm just trying to make my...
- Shut the fuck up.
- Come on. man.
- Turn around.
Guys. you're taking this too far.
Listen. I'm just trying to make...
Hey!
Hold up.
I'll take it from here.
Orders.
I'm supposed to take any high-level
prisoners directly to field command.
- How do we know which side you're on?
- I'm a peacekeeper. idiot.
Yeah. but some of us
sided with these assholes.
Hey. listen. why don't we...
Nobody asked you to speak. fuckface.
Come on. Move it.
We've got four more corridors
to check on this sublevel.
- Let's move.
- Christ.
Copy that.
- Why'd you have to hit me in the stomach?
- You're lucky it wasn't your nose.
Hang on a second. Let me get these.
What are you doing out here?
It's not safe.
I'm just trying to keep things
from getting too out of control.
A bit late for that.
Maybe you should come with me.
Where?
MOCC.
Things might get ugly.
and I figured if we put
a level-headed person or two in there.
then maybe we can stop
anyone else from getting hurt.
Come on. you know me.
I could use the help.
All right. But watch your step. Miles.
I think maybe you ought to change
before we go there.
Oh. yeah.
Hey.
Miles is here.
Slow. easy.
The hell's going on in there. Malka?
I don't know.
Everything happened so fast.
Miles.
Fuck. bro. We did it.
What the hell is she doing here?
- She's a fucking cop. She arrested me.
- I know…
Hey. hey. hey. hold it. hold it. hold it.
She's with me. okay?
Everybody. just calm down.
Didn't you see what they did back there?
You know I did.
And I'm as mad about it as you are.
but it wasn't all of them.
It wasn't her.
So. what. you're on our side now?
I'm on the side of everyone
calming the fuck down.
She's here to help.
Everybody. just relax.
There's no reason
for anybody to get hurt here.
You have already hurt people.
Would you shut the fuck up?
You think it's
acceptable to tie people up?
Ger. This guy…
I know what you're trying to achieve.
but what if the M-6 calls your bluff?
- Bluff?
- These are innocent bystanders.
- You have no right.
- You're not really gonna hurt anybody.
Now. I don't know what it's like in
your country. but in the Soviet Union
we hang terrorists for treason.
and that is what will happen to you.
all of you.
Once order is restored on this base.
you will pay for your crimes.
Ger. Ger. don't… Ger.
Set the charges.
Three. two. one. detonate.
Okay. move. move!
Contact left. Right. Go. go. go.
- Contact right.
- We got you.
Target down. right.
Covering right.
Crossing. Target down. right.
Contact right.
- Good. Number four.
- Right side clear.
Crossing. Overhead. Check overhead.
- I got you.
- Center. Over here.
Target down. Target down.
On me. on me.
Overhead clear.
I'm all clear. sir.
- Marines. fall in.
- Clear.
Clear.
Cease-fire. cease-fire.
Congratulations. Marines.
You managed to take this sector
from our OPFOR team.
Remove your helmets
and prepare for debrief.
I got you.
For a first CQB training
in pressure suits.
you did a decent enough job today.
Oorah.
Yeah. except your ass would be dead
with that bad seal. Dixon.
Did anyone ask you to speak. Marine?
- No. sir.
- Well.
thanks to our resident Marsie.
get in your PTU's.
- We're adding a 10K run immediately.
- Come on. Really?
Keep bitching and moaning.
you'll do it in those suits.
Let's move it. people!
Thanks a lot. Haskell.
Yeah. you're welcome.
Go. Marsie.
You're welcome.
Yeah. you got it.
- Never change. Marsie.
- Yeah.
Fuck off.
You okay?
That looked like it hurt.
I'm tired of waiting.
I gotta go out there.
- I need to find Alex.
- Yeah. no more waiting around.
We need to get word to Sojourner.
and since we can't do it from here...
I would strongly urge
the two of you to stay put.
We're not receiving any comms
from the peacekeepers at this point.
but we have picked up chatter about
scattered violence throughout the base.
Ms. Vogel.
if we say we wanna go somewhere.
it's your job to figure out
how to get us there.
Understood?
Give me an hour to prepare
a risk mitigation route for you both.
You have ten minutes. starting now.
All right. guys.
Ger. can you guys hear us?
Yeah. we can hear you.
Good. Yeah.
we're stuck over by the biodomes.
Everybody's hunkered down over here.
But the thing is.
I think I saw the sheriff.
I can't be sure. but looked like him
and some of his peckers
were grouping up by the cryo plant.
I tried to get a closer look.
but by then they were gone.
Yeah. sorry. man. Keep you updated.
Palmer's still out there. man.
I'd feel a lot better
if I knew where he was.
I don't know where the sheriff is.
but I can tell you where he's been.
Can you tap into the security system?
Can do. Give me a sec.
Their protocols are pretty weak.
Here we go.
There he is.
Those are all places
he's accessed with his ID.
Motherfucker.
He's on the other side of the base.
What the hell is he doing over there?
I mean. he's got to know we're in here.
- Weapons.
- What?
There's a few hidden stores
of assault weapons around the base
in case MPKs need an emergency resupply.
He's headed right for one.
And then he and the other peacekeepers
will retake MOCC as is their duty.
Just get… get the duct tape.
Just shut him up.
Yeah. but he's right.
That's what they're gonna do
once they've secured those weapons.
They'll head straight here to MOCC.
So then we need to get
to those weapons first.
Okay. then I'll send
some of my guys right now.
You need to tell me exactly where
those weapons are and how to access them.
Absolutely not.
You just said if he gets to them first.
we're fucked.
Yeah. but I trust you
even less than I do him.
Can I talk to you?
If Palmer and his men
get those weapons first.
this thing's over before it even started.
and you know it.
The best way to avoid them attacking MOCC
is to tell your people it's time
to give it up and go back to their habs.
Then what?
Back to the way things were?
They can never run this base again.
Not Palmer. not the governor.
None of them. After what they did?
I know there are some good cops up here.
We need you.
No. I'm not the right person.
Neither am I. You think I want this?
I got Palmer on one side
trying to storm the Alamo.
I got Ger on the other
trying to pull a My Lai.
There's only us two in the middle
trying to stop this whole thing
turning into chaos.
I can't do that alone.
Okay. I will do what I can to
keep those weapons out of Palmer's hands.
but you gotta promise me that
he's not gonna touch them either.
He won't. You have my word.
Hey. Don't get up. No. no. Hey. Here.
Mom.
It's okay. I'm here. I'm here.
Where's Dad?
- God. is he okay?
- No. your father is fine.
He was…
he was here with you for a long time.
but he's just…
trying to make sure things
don't get even more out of control.
I'm fine too. by the way.
thanks for asking.
I had a feeling from
the worried look on your face.
I can tell.
Well. I wasn't the only one
who was worried about you.
He wouldn't leave until
he knew you were all right.
even after Dima practically begged him to.
Is he okay?
He's gonna be fine.
You know. when they were getting
you stabilized.
I saw how upset he was.
How much he cares about you.
I really care about him too.
Have you considered that
maybe he has feelings for you?
What?
We're friends. Mom.
- I know.
- Stop. We practically grew up together.
I mean. I…
He's never said anything.
That's how it was with me and your father.
Okay.
- Ew.
- Ew?
Sorry. you just don't have to tell me
about you making
the move on Dad right now.
- Okay. okay.
- I get it.
All I'm saying is that guys
like to pretend they're brave.
but. you know. when it comes
to this kind of thing.
they are scared little puppies.
Shit.
They were already here.
- Where's the next one?
- Near the water towers.
Where are you going?
There's only two more stockpiles left.
I wanna clear Central.
Show yourself.
I have position and a dozen men.
Okay.
Jesus Christ. Boyd.
You scared the shit out of us.
Yeah. same.
What are you doing here?
After what happened at the protest?
I mean. I can't get it out of my mind.
- They were just shooting into the crowd.
- I know.
The sheriff even threatened Garner here
when she wouldn't follow orders.
Listen to me.
he's going after the weapon stockpiles.
and if he gets them.
then who knows what he'll do.
Will you help us?
Yeah.
Please remain
in your habs until further notice.
Hold it.
Entire base is under curfew orders.
What's your purpose?
We're just trying to get out of Helios
and back to our habs.
Do you understand
what's going on out here?
It's not safe. especially not for you.
You need to go back the same way you came.
- Don't.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
It's just my badge. okay?
Calm the fuck down.
Under the Mars Charter.
private security forces are authorized
to escort essential personnel.
Even during a curfew.
Your funeral.
Maybe this wasn't such a good idea.
All right. medbay's down this way.
We need to get to MOCC first.
- No. we need to get Alex first.
- Dev…
I care about Alex too.
but we have a team of people in there
who are my responsibility.
I have to make sure they're okay.
Take the security.
You have to take something. You can't...
If MOCC's been taken by force. then you're
gonna need all the help that you can get.
Nobody's gonna take the medbay.
Okay.
Be safe.
You too.
Details on the current status
of Happy Valley remain scarce.
but several sources
on the Mars base have confirmed
that after a violent clash
between protesters
and authorities that's led to
at least three confirmed dead
and many more wounded.
a group of radical Mars residents has
forcibly taken over Mars mission control.
President Bragg was informed
during a visit to a high school
in Sarasota. Florida.
The group who call
themselves the Sons and Daughters of Mars…
…the terrorists. who call
themselves the Sons and Daughters of Mars.
have taken
Governor Leonid Polivanov hostage
along with an unknown number of others.
This brazen and violent
takeover seemingly stems
from anti-automation protests
that have grown in size and scope
ever since leaked documents
revealed the M-6's plans
for their Mars operations.
As of yet. the M-6 has not released
any statements
regarding this unprecedented event.
- but we expect that the group…
- Hey. You okay?
…will soon be releasing their demands.
Not really.
Hear from your parents?
- Shit.
- Yeah. and I know my dad.
He's…
He's not the kind of guy
to keep his mouth shut. you know?
Especially now with
the whole Free Mars thing.
Yeah. I don't blame him.
Free Mars?
Free from what?
Yeah. seriously.
They wouldn't last a month without
all the shit that Earth sends up.
Happy Valley Base is home
to around 5.000 people.
- most of whom…
- You didn't like it up there?
I like the people.
You know. my friends.
But the place.
it's just so fucking barren. you know?
You know. I was so stoked
to come back home.
see the ocean again. the trees.
It's kind of nice that you can
just go outside here without dying.
Yeah.
Seems fucking awful.
Why the hell do you wanna go?
I don't.
Hoping to get stationed on the moon.
Mars. that's a complicated one for me.
What's the difference?
One's red dirt. one's gray dirt.
You don't have to tell me if you don't
want to. but. you know. generally…
a conversation does involve two people
telling each other things.
Not great at that.
Yeah. I noticed.
You cannot tell this to anyone.
My mouth is sealed.
My last name is not Jarrett.
That's my stepdad's name.
My biological father was Danny Stevens.
Wait. like… like. the Danny Stevens?
Mars Danny Stevens?
Yeah.
You're telling me that Tracy and…
Tracy and Gordo Stevens
are your fucking grandma and grandpa?
And the other kid.
the one… that bombed the…
- the thing...
- My uncle.
Jimmy.
Wow.
And I thought my family was fucked up.
Yeah. no. sorry.
I think I got you beat
on family drama shit.
Yeah.
Truth is. I'm probably just
as fucked up as they were.
Yeah. but. I mean.
your grandparents were heroes. right?
So the way I see it.
you've got a 50-50 shot
of not being an asshole.
Cheers.
Thanks.
…are anxiously waiting for any updates.
The concern now becomes
just how violent these rebels
are willing to get
in order to attain their goals.
Stop!
Turn around.
You need to let me in.
My people are in there.
Nobody's allowed in or out.
Is anyone talking to the Titan mission?
No.
Listen. Listen…
I personally asked those people
to take an 18-month journey
to the far reaches of our solar system.
And I will not leave them to wonder
whether their children
and their families are okay.
Do you understand?
I know who you are. okay?
And if I let you in.
they might not let you leave.
Good.
Because there's no way I'm leaving
until I know my people up there are okay.
They stay out.
You can come in.
Go back to Helios.
Ma'am. this is not a good idea.
I'll be all right.
What the fuck are you doing?
Everybody's fine. okay?
These are my employees
and you can't treat them like this.
She's supposed to be on that console
talking to our mission
on its way to Titan.
Until we're secure.
no one talks with the outside.
Ger. let her talk to the ship.
That's not what we're here for.
No fucking way. man.
Who knows what kind of codes they
might send about what's going on in here.
Are you a fucking idiot?
Do you realize that the longer
you have these consoles unstaffed.
the more danger
the entire base is in. right?
I know about the base backup systems
and I know they can
handle things for a little bit.
You wanna bet our lives on that?
Ger. maybe we should listen to her.
Come on. man.
- What do you need?
- Shireen.
I need her to reestablish
communication with Sojourner.
Untie her.
Comms are gonna take
a minute to reestablish.
That's okay. sweetheart.
What else?
Feels like maybe you shouldn't
have unsupervised fusion reactors.
Who usually runs Base Ops
and oversees the reactors?
- Them.
- Untie them.
In fact. untie all of them.
- We're letting them go?
- No. Not yet.
Look. I don't know how this thing
plays out. but if we treat them like this.
we're no better than
the people we're fighting.
Hey. not him.
He stays tied.
Please remain
in your habs until further notice.
Hey.
Oh. I know you.
No. I don't think so.
I'm just trying to get to the medbay.
- Yeah. Mr. Helios himself.
- Holy shit.
It's Dev fucking Ayesa.
Look. I really just need to get by…
You're trying to ship us all off
so you can make a little extra cash. huh?
You line your pockets.
take our jobs. you greedy motherfucker.
Guys. I'm just trying
to get to the medbay.
You're not going anywhere.
you fucking asshole.
Sojourner. Happy Valley.
Aleida. thank God.
There's a…
a situation here
and I'm not sure what I can tell you.
We've heard about it from Houston.
Then you know why the comms
were down for a little while.
I know you've been in the dark
about your loved ones.
and I just wanted to let you know
what we know so far.
Kelly. Alex is okay. He's recovering.
Recovering from what?
He got a little banged up
during the protest. Nothing serious.
And what about my husband?
He's a peacekeeper. Louis Beaufort.
Yes. Elena…
your husband was badly injured.
What happened?
Is he okay?
The medical team is doing
everything they can.
But right now.
he is unconscious.
I'm sorry.
Please. God.
All right. let's load these up.
Looks like we had the same idea.
Stop right there.
I just wanna talk.
I'm really glad to see you're okay.
I know how you must be feeling right now.
And you probably won't believe me.
But I am so sorry.
What you did was unforgivable.
I'm not looking for forgiveness.
But have you thought about
who you're getting into bed with here?
Watch yourself.
- Yeah.
- That's all I'm saying.
Watch yourself. C.
Excuse me.
A few of us are in need of the bathroom.
Unless you want us to wear diapers
like cosmonauts in the old days.
Right. I'm sorry.
Have a guard take three of them
at a time to the restroom.
Thank you…
for bringing some
much needed calm to the situation.
I know you're trying to
find a way out of this mess.
but your colleague. for all
his numerous limitations. was correct.
that without the willingness
to follow through on your threat.
you have no leverage.
What. do you want me to shoot you?
We both know you're not capable
of such a thing.
Lady. you don't know me.
Hey. they're back.
What the fuck? More of them?
- They want to help.
- Glad to see you're back.
- You get the weapons?
- Yeah.
- Good. Where are they?
- Somewhere safe.
I told you we shouldn't
have trusted this pecker.
I don't understand.
I thought you were with us here.
I am. but we talked about this.
I'm not giving out guns to every
itchy trigger finger who wants one.
Before I just hand over an armory.
I need to know what the plan is.
We can't hole up
in this room indefinitely.
She's right.
Nobody fucking asked you.
The M-6 has poured billions
into mining iridium up here.
They're not just gonna give that up.
You need to face reality.
That's why we have the governor.
They have to stop the automation
if they want him back.
No. they don't care about him.
Not enough anyway.
But there is something
they definitely care about.
It's what they've always cared about.
The iridium.
Right. They want as much as they can
as fast as they can.
That's what Ed was talking about
this whole time.
The asteroid. that's our leverage.
So. until they decide
to give in to our demands.
we're not sending any more
iridium shipments back to Earth.
But how would we even do that?
We have taken over Mission Control
as well as the Phoenix spaceport
and all asteroid mining operations
on Kuznetsov Station.
Until our demands are met.
we will withhold
all iridium shipments to the M-6.
The people of Mars
will not be taken advantage of.
Until all plans for automation
are officially called off.
until all automation robotics
are sent back to Earth.
and until the people of Mars are allowed
to elect their own representative
who must have a seat on the M-6 council.
including veto power over all
decisions made regarding the Mars colony.
This is our home.
We are the people of Mars.
We speak as one.
The people of Mars have spoken as one?
Would you care for my opinion?
No.
There's no going back if we do this.
Let's be honest.
there's already no going back.
Here goes nothing.
Is it really you?
The second I heard that MOCC was taken…
I begged them to bring me back to you.
What's this?
Don't cry.
Come. we can take you back to the ISN base
where it's safe.
The people who helped you before…
they need your help now.
Sleeping Beauty awakes.
Sorry. Sorry.
- Where's your mom?
- Oh. she w…
she went to go check on my dad.
I guess he's trying to help
calm things down.
That's good.
- I'm glad that you did...
- I…
- Sorry.
- Sorry. Pl…
You go first. I'm sorry.
I just…
I heard that you wouldn't leave my side.
Yeah. I…
I mean…
You know.
I had to show the doctors what to do.
Right. Yeah. of course. Sure.
Yeah. well. You know. we were actually
just getting the leeches ready
- in case there was any internal bleeding.
- Okay.
Yeah.
No. but I mean.
in all seriousness though. like…
It was… It was scary though.
Seeing you like that. I thought…
- I don't know. I…
- What?
Lils. I might lose you.
Hey. guys?
We're getting a message from the M-6.
Patch it through.
I speak today.
not only on behalf of the United States.
but also the other M-6 nations.
and we want to make ourselves very clear.
We will not negotiate with terrorists.
Not now. not ever.
We will give you nothing.
And until you release the hostages
and resume iridium shipments.
the M-6 nations have agreed
to a complete embargo of Happy Valley.
You will receive no new supplies.
You will receive no new food.
You will receive no new medication.
You will receive no support from Earth.
your home planet.
until this comes to a resolution.
And I assure you.
we will bring it to a resolution.
First aid kit. Now!
Without allies. without aid.
without your home planet.
let's see how long you can survive.
Today. you have made
some very powerful enemies.
Are you okay. sir?
Lock the doors.